So here I have spun up a cluster using Kubs,
with three nodes.
So here are three nodes running 1.9.8.
And if I describe one node,
I will be able to see the labels.
So I'm going to describe node,
and then I'm going to describe my first node,
not the master, but the first node.
And let's scroll up.
And then we see the labels.
So here we see the architecture amd64,
instance-type t2.micro, OS Linux,
region eu-west-1, and it's in the eu-west-1a zone,
and the host name is the full alias host name.
So these labels already exist.
You can use them for affinity
if you're going to make your own rules.
I'm going to use the example I showed you in the theory.
So I'm going to go to my Kubernetes course Git repository.
And here I have a folder affinity.
In this folder I have node-affinity.yaml,
and I have a deployment that's called node-affinity
that I will deploy to my Kubernetes cluster.
So I need env def,
and I need team engineering-project1, which is optional.
So let me just create this one and see what happens.
I'm going to create a node-affinity.yaml,
and it's going to launch three pods.
So I'll do kubectl get pod, and I get pending,
because I haven't created labels yet.
So if I do kubectl get describe pod,
and the pod name, zero out of four nodes are available.
The first one is the master,
so it's not gonna scale on that one.
And then all of them,
they don't match my required affinity rule.
So let's then start creating labels using kubectl label,
so I can label a node.
And I will do get nodes first.
So label node.
I will take the first node here,
and I'm going to label it env=dev.
And I'm also going to label the second node env=dev.
And now you will see that all the pods have been scaled.
It can take some time, obviously.
And then you can see that now the pods are being scaled.
Two running, one is still creating.
If you now do describe this pod,
then we see it was successfully
assigned to one of our nodes.
So now it is running.
It is running on this node, the one that ends with 119.
That is the first one here, the first node here.
And you can see that these two nodes
now have the label env=dev.
But the other label, it doesn't really matter.
The other label was not taken into account
because it doesn't exist on either of them,
so it got scaled anyways.
So now if we label our node that ends with 196,
we add label team=engineering-project1,
and then let's have a look at our YAML file.
Engineering-project1,
team engineering-project1 is preferred.
So now if you would stop this node here
that is running on the node IP ending on 119,
then it should be rescaled on the one
that is ending with 196,
because now this one is the only one
with the label engineering-project1.
So let's try that.
Let's try to get the name of this pod.
This is node-affinity with vk7tg at the end.
And this is now running on the one with 119.
So let's say kubectl delete pod, this one.
And then we do kubectl get pods.
Then we see that this one is terminating.
A new one has been created.
This one is five seconds old.
Let's describe this one.
Kubectl describe pod.
And where is this one now running?
On the one that ends with 196,
because the one that ends with 196
is the one that best matches our affinity rules,
because this is the only node
that also has the team key value pair,
the team label that I am looking for.
So now typically, all the pods that I restart
are going to be first scaled on this node.
And if this node is full
or it cannot scale anything anymore,
then it will be scaled on other nodes
that have the tag env=dev.
If it doesn't have that mandatory tag, that required tag,
then it will not be scaled at all.
So that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture, I will explain to you
about pod affinity and anti-affinity.